Heading: [Address by the President of Ukraine]
Date: [25 February 2022]
Speech Content: [The second morning of a large-scale war. At 4 am, Russian forces continued to launch missile strikes on the territory of Ukraine.

They say that civilian objects are not a target for them. This is a lie. In fact, they do not distinguish in which areas to operate.

Just as yesterday, the military and civilians are equally under Russian attack. The purpose of this attack is to put pressure on you, the citizens of Ukraine, to put pressure on our entire society. I emphasize: not just on the government - on all Ukrainians. And today - even more than yesterday.

Our men and women - all defenders of Ukraine - did not allow the enemy to realize the operational plan of invasion on the first day. Ukrainians demonstrate real heroism. The enemy was stopped in most directions. There are fights.

Therefore, Russia's attack continues with the expectation that our forces will be tired. But no one is tired.

Ukraine's air defense forces are protecting our sky. As much as possible. Enemy aircraft operate treacherously over residential areas, including the capital.

Terrible explosions in the morning sky over Kyiv, bombing, hitting a house, fire - all this reminds of the first such attack on our capital, which took place in 1941.

This morning we are defending our state alone, as we did yesterday. The world's most powerful forces are watching from afar.

Did yesterday's sanctions convince Russia? We hear in our sky and see on our earth that this is not enough. Foreign troops are still trying to become more active in our territory.

Only the solidarity and determination of Ukrainians can preserve our freedom and protect the state. The army, border guards, the National Guard, the police, intelligence, the Territorial Defense Forces - everyone performs their tasks to the maximum.

It is very important that today our citizens also demonstrate maximum endurance and mutual support. Take care of your family and loved ones, but do not forget about the people around you. Those who are single, those who are older. Help them with food. Help find shelter when there is an air alarm. Help with access to verified official information.

Stop the enemy wherever you see it. The fate of Ukraine depends only on Ukrainians. No one but ourselves will control our lives. We are on our land, the truth is on our side. It will not be possible to destroy our character. Kalibr missiles are helpless against our freedom.

Russia will still have to talk to us sooner or later. Talk about how to end the fighting and stop this invasion. The sooner the conversation begins, the smaller Russia's losses will be.

Dear citizens of the Russian Federation. As I said, tonight they started bombing residential areas of the hero city of Kyiv. It all reminds me of 1941. To all the citizens of the Russian Federation who come out to protest, I want to say - we see you. This means that you heard us. This means that you begin to trust us. Fight for us. Fight against the war.Chancellor of Germany Olaf Scholz yesterday said Russia's invasion of Ukraine is something Europe has not seen for 75 years. And it's true. But this is not the whole truth.

This is not just Russia's invasion in Ukraine, this is the beginning of the war against Europe. Against the unity of Europe. Against elementary human rights in Europe. Against all coexistence rules on the continent. Against the fact that European states refuse to divide, yes, to divide the borders by force.

The cities of Ukraine undergo rocket bombing for the second day already. Tank columns and air strikes are as similar as something Europe has already seen a long time ago - during the Second World War and talked "never again" about it. But this is it! Again. Now. In 2022. 75 years after the Second World War completion.

I’m confident you see it - all of you, entire Europe. But we do not see in full what you are going to do. How are you going to protect yourself when you help us so slowly in Ukraine?

I’d like to point out what has already happened. And for this we are grateful. Sectoral sanctions. The United States, Canada, United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia and New Zealand introduced precisely sectoral sanctions against Russia. In particular, against all the largest banks. Against the largest Russian enterprises. Against Russia's access to Western technologies.

But Russian tanks are still shooting at residential buildings in our cities. Armored vehicles are still attacking, including civilians. Ordinary citizens of Ukraine.

Europe has sufficient force to stop this aggression. What to expect from European states further?

Cancellation of visas for Russians? Cutting off Swift? Full isolation of Russia? Recalling ambassadors? Oil embargo? Closure of the sky? Today, all this should be on the table, because it is a threat to us, all of us, all of Europe. You can still stop aggression. We must act without delay.

Ordinary people can also do their part of the job, I'm sure, in every country of the world, in each country of Europe. Go out on the square of your cities and demand peace for Europe, peace for Ukraine, stop this war. Go out, go out on the squares and demand to stop the war. This is our right. This is your right.

When bombs fall in Kyiv, this happens in Europe, not only in Ukraine. When missiles kill our people, it's the death of all Europeans. Require more protection for Europe, more protection for Ukraine - as part of a democratic world.

While state institutions in Europe are in no hurry with really strong decisions, every European in the capital can already come to our embassy and offer assistance. Demand from your governments more financial, more military assistance to Ukraine. For this help is a help to you. For it is a help to Europe. You help yourself.

If you have a combat experience in Europe and do not want to look at the indecision of politicians, you can arrive in our state and protect Europe with us where it is now urgently required.

You have already been blackmailed with gas. Already humiliated. They already want to split and divide you the same way as they are trying to divide Ukraine today.

Protect yourself. Just as we protect yourself.

I want to address Russian Federation President once again. Battles take place all over the territory of Ukraine. Let's sit at the negotiating table. To stop the death of people.

And now I want to address the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Stand firmly. You are all we have. You are everything that protects our state.

Today was a hard yet courageous day. We are fighting for our state absolutely on all frontlines: South, East, North, in many cities of our beautiful country. Fighting around the clock on the diplomatic frontline as well - it's easier to say with whom I did not speak to among world leaders today. We continue this. I have been constantly working and spoke with President Macron, Scholz, Rutte, Mrs. von der Leyen, President of the United States Biden. I outlined what answer Ukrainians still expect from the West to this aggression and agreed on new assistance, new support, significant assistance for our state. I thank all the leaders and I am separately grateful to President Biden.

I was really glad to see the news from friendly Georgia. I want to thank the good, beautiful Georgian people who went out on the streets of their country and supported Ukraine. You are true friends! Thanks.

Our main goal is to end this slaughter. The enemy suffers very-very serious losses. These are hundreds, hundreds of killed soldiers who crossed our border, who came to our land.

We suffer losses as well, unfortunately. Ukrainians resist the aggression heroically. It is impossible to justify. Therefore, the invaders have to come up with more and more absurd accusations to say at least something.

I am convinced that these allegations are biased, nobody will believe them. Ukrainians won’t believe them, the world won’t believe them, citizens of the Russian Federation won’t believe them.

It's simply cannot be such a truth that could clarify why kindergartens and housing infrastructure are fired from a missile artillery. In Vorzel, Kyiv region, they fired "Grads" at an orphanage. Okhtyrka, Sumy region, was shelled by "Uragans". Housing quarters, shelter, kindergartens were under the shelling. What is this war against Ukrainian children in a kindergarten? Who are they? Are they neo-Nazis from kindergarten as well? Or were they NATO soldiers that threatened Russia? Killed and injured children are the sentence to this invasion.

Everyone, I emphasize, everyone must do everything they can to stop this war. Every day of aggression destroys normal life not only in Ukraine, but also in Russia, and in Europe, in the world.

Europeans do not imagine yet what it is like to live when there is such a confrontation next to you. I have to say absolutely frankly: this night will be harder than a day. Many cities of our state are under attack. Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv, our boys, our girls in Donbas, cities of the south of Ukraine. Kyiv requires special attention. We cannot lose the capital.

I appeal to our defenders on all frontlines. This night the enemy will use all the forces available to break our resistance. Treacherously, viciously, inhumanly. This night they will make an assault upon us. We all have to understand what we are going to face. This night we have to withstand. The fate of Ukraine is now being decided. Each civilian should be as careful as possible. Help, please, each other, especially elderly people, lonely, those for whom it is very difficult now. In case of any danger go to the shelter.

Everyone who has already joined the country's defense or can help defend, stop the enemy everywhere you can. Remove special signs that saboteurs leave on the roads and buildings. Burn the enemy’s equipment with anything you can. If even kindergartens are a permissible target for invaders, you must not leave them any chance.

All thoughts, all prayers of Ukrainians are with our military. We believe in them, take care of them. Defend our state. The night will be tough, very tough. But the morning will come.

Glory to Ukraine!]