Heading: [Ukraine complements international sanctions mechanisms with its own sanctions]
Date: [23 November 2023]
Speech Content: [I wish you health, fellow Ukrainians!

Today, there are several new sanctions decisions by our state – two packages of sanctions.

This is synchronization with partners regarding those individuals who directly work for or assist Russian aggression. It also means sanctions against the entities of the terrorist state related to critical infrastructure. Each name, each company name is a specific guilty party to the fact that Russian terror continues.

Ukraine complements international sanctions mechanisms with its own sanctions. And we are working to ensure that the sanctions of our partners are extended to those against whom Ukraine has already made appropriate decisions.

Today I signed decrees on more than 300 legal entities and almost 150 individuals of the terrorist state. And our special services, first of all the Security Service of Ukraine, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Security and Defense Council, will continue their work. There will be other sanctions decisions.

There were several important reports today. In particular, on eliminating the consequences of Russian strikes. In different regions. Thousands of people are working in Kherson, Zaporizhzhia, Dnipro, Donetsk and Kharkiv regions in utilities, in the State Emergency Service, in medical services, as volunteers to help people and preserve our infrastructure – the essentials for a normal life. I am grateful to each and every person who provides medical care to Ukrainians, who works to extinguish fires after shelling. I thank everyone who restores electricity and water supply, who clears unexploded ordnance and demines the area. All of this is a special kind of courage and dedication, and I am grateful for it.

Today I would like to recognize the employees of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine in Nikopol. Russian troops are bombarding the city almost every day. And every day our people are there to save lives. Captain of the Civil Defense Service Mykola Tkach, Senior Lieutenant Bohdan Tarasiuk, Master Sergeants Oleksandr Bilokon and Oleksandr Zhur, and Sergeant Maksym Preyda. I thank you guys, all your colleagues, and everyone who helps. I would also like to recognize the rescuers who work in Odesa region. Master Sergeants Serhiy Herasymenko, Serhiy Tsymbalystyi, Vitaliy Labutin, Chief Master Sergeants of the Civil Defense Service Ihor Yatsenko and Oleh Shmidt. I thank you, all your colleagues, for efficiency and consistently courageous work.

Of course, I was in touch with the commanders. Maximum attention is paid to Donetsk directions. In particular, Avdiivka. Also Kharkiv region and Kupyansk direction. I am grateful to everyone who is resilient and holds our positions – every soldier, every sergeant, every commander. Today there was also a report from the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine – there are new results in countering enemy operations and collaborators. These are important results, and I am grateful for them. I thank everyone who cares about our country, everyone who fights and works for Ukraine and Ukrainians, everyone who adds their strength to the common strength of our country. The people that is fighting will definitely survive.

Glory to Ukraine!]