Heading: [For us, this is a patriotic war, and we know how such wars end for the invaders - address by the President of Ukraine. They wanted to destroy Ukraine so many times, but failed.]
Date: [3 March 2022]
Speech Content: [Good health to you, dear Ukrainians! Strong and kind! But – kind NOT to enemies.

We are a nation that broke the enemy's plans in a week. Plans that have been built for years. Treacherously. Deliberately. With hatred of our country, of our people - of any people who have heart and freedom. But we stopped them. We beat them. Our military, border guards, territorial defense. Even ordinary farmers capture the Russian military on a daily basis. And they all say one thing: they don't know why they're here. Despite the fact that their quantity is ten times bigger, the morale of the enemy is deteriorating. More and more invaders are fleeing back to Russia. From us. From you. From all who drive out the enemy with javelins, stugnas, guns, tanks, planes, helicopters. Everything that shoots.

But Ukrainians are beating the enemy even without weapons. I sincerely admire the heroic civilians of Konotop, Bashtanka, Energodar, Melitopol. Other towns and villages. Who do not let the invaders in by blocking the roads. People come out in front of enemy vehicles. This is extremely dangerous. But this is brave. It is also salvation. I'm sure you saw a video from Melitopol where Ukrainians protested against Russians who entered our city. Temporarily. I am sure of this: if they entered somewhere, it is only temporarily. We’ll drive them out. With shame. As those people, ordinary people who drive the invaders out of grocery stores when the Russian soldiers are trying to find food do. These are not warriors of the superpower. These are confused children who were used. Take them home.

Ukrainians! Every invader should know: they will not get anything here. No one will be conquered. Even if they can accumulate more equipment and more people, it doesn't change anything for them. Wherever they enter. They will be destroyed everywhere. They will not have peace. They will have no food. They will not have a single quiet moment. The invaders will receive only a rebuff from Ukrainians. Fierce rebuff. Such a rebuff that they will forever remember that we will not give up what’s ours. That they will remember what the patriotic war is. Yes, for us it is a patriotic war. We remember how patriotic wars begin. And we know how they end. For the invaders.

Our army is doing everything to break the enemy completely. Almost nine thousand Russians were killed! In one week! In the Mykolaiv direction invaders have to take away the "two hundred" and "three hundred" with tens of helicopters. 19 years, 20 years ... What did they see in life, apart from this invasion? But most of them remain everywhere. Ukraine does not want to be covered with military corpses. Go home. Your whole army. Tell your commanders that you want to live. Not to die. To live. The war must be stopped and peace restored as soon as possible.

Today was, as usual, an active day of negotiations with the leaders of the member states of our anti-war coalition. I held talks with the heads of government of Norway and Israel. With the President of Kazakhstan. With the Emir of Qatar Tamim Bin Hamad al Thani. With President of the European Council Charles Michel. With Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau. With President of Poland Andrzej Duda. Brilliant result at the UN General Assembly. 141 countries supported the resolution, which calls on Russia to withdraw troops from Ukraine immediately. 141 states stand for us! And for Russia - only four states that voted against. Here is the list: North Korea, Eritrea, Syria and Belarus. This is the list. These are the friends. And there will be no others for the state that does not know how to live in peace.

Today I held a meeting with the heads of regions and cities of Ukraine. The new head of the Odesa regional state administration is already working. Maksym Marchenko. Military. Professional. Our guys on the ground are working hard to organize "green corridors". To take out civilians. To bring medicine. Volnovakha, cities of the Kyiv, Sumy, Kharkiv regions, south of Ukraine. This is very difficult. Extremely difficult. We are opposed by terror. But terror loses. Thanks to our heroes.

Today I signed a decree awarding the title of Hero of Ukraine to fifteen of our defenders:

Senior Lieutenant Maksym Vitaliyovych Bilokon. Posthumously. He took part in repelling the enemy's attack during the defense of Chernihiv, destroyed the enemy's subversive group and two enemy tanks.

Lieutenant Colonel Oleksandr Valeriyovych Kapichun. Posthumously. Thanks to his heroic actions, the enemy column was stopped, equipment and enemy soldiers were destroyed.

Soldier Oleksandr Volodymyrovych Lukyanovych. Posthumously. During the battle he neutralized up to three dozen units of enemy equipment. He was fatally wounded by an air strike.

Junior Sergeant Mykhailo Mykhailovych Nesolyony. Posthumously. He died in close combat with enemy forces while evacuating people.

Soldier Andriy Valeriyovych Nikonchuk. Posthumously. He protected the Kyiv HPP from Russian air raids and missile strikes.

Lieutenant Vitalii Romanoviyh Sapyl. Posthumously. Tank platoon commander. Neutralized three dozen enemy vehicles. Killed by an air strike.

Chief Sergeant Oleksiy Oleksandrovych Senyuk. Posthumously. He defended Chernihiv, destroyed two enemy IFVs and captured a T-72 tank. Killed by an air strike.

Lieutenant Vladyslav Petrovych Ukrainets. Posthumously. He covered the retreat of brothers-in-arms when the enemy attacked.

Major Stepan Ivanovych Choban. Posthumously. The pilot of the Su-27, distracted the enemy aircraft over Kropyvnytskyi.

Major Ihor Vasyliovych Mykhalchuk. Head of the tank battalion unit. Destroyed numerous enemy armored vehicles.

Colonel Serhiy Mykolayovych Musienko. Head of the Missile and Artillery Division. Inflicted devastating blows on the enemy in the Kharkiv direction.

Lieutenant Yevhen Mykhailovych Palchenko. Tank platoon commander. Covered the exit of the brigade from the encirclement.

Major Vladyslav Yuriyovych Prokopenko. Head of the tank battalion. Withdrew personnel and equipment from the encirclement without loss.

Lieutenant Colonel Pavlo Yuriyovych Fedosenko. Head of the unit of the 92nd brigade. For the effective defense of Kharkiv.

Senior Lieutenant Dmytro Petrovych Chavalakh. For heroic participation in the defense of the Kherson region.

All 40 million are like these fifteen heroes!Unbreakable people of invincible Ukraine!

Exactly two years ago, the first case of COVID-19 was recorded in Ukraine. The first weeks of fighting it were extremely difficult. But we were united, and therefore strong, and therefore we withstood. Exactly a week ago, Ukraine was attacked by another virus. Another disease. By those who suffer from severe annexation and occupation of foreign lands. One week ago, at 4 am, Russia invaded our independent Ukraine, our land. Acute fit of aggression, megalomania, delusion of persecution. Heavy psychological complexes and as a result - missile systems. Rocket artillery. Tanks and other armored vehicles - simply like locusts. The first hours and days of full-scale war were extremely difficult. But we were united, and therefore strong, and therefore we withstood. And it will be so. And we will continue to stand.

We stand so that the invaders were forced to change tactics. Russia's missile and bomb strikes at Ukrainian cities are a confession that they could not do anything significant on land. All lines of our defense are preserved. The enemy has no success in any of the strategic directions. They are demoralized. They are doomed. Kyiv survived this night and withstood another missile and bomb strike. Our air defense worked. Kherson, Izyum, all other cities where the invaders carried out strikes from the air, did not give up anything. Chernihiv, Sumy, Mykolaiv hold the line. Odesa. They also want to destroy Odesa. But they will see only the bottom of the Black Sea. The target of Russia was the Assumption Cathedral in Kharkiv. One of the oldest Orthodox monuments of the city, monuments of Ukraine. During the war, the cathedral is a shelter for Kharkiv residents. Shelter for all people: believers and non-believers. For everyone, because everyone is equal. Holy place. Now it is damaged by war. They are not afraid of even that! They enjoy the fact that God does not give an instant rebuff. But he sees. And he answers. Answers so that you cannot hide. There is no such bunker to survive God's response. And we will restore the cathedral so that no trace of war remains there. And even if you destroy all our cathedrals and churches, you will not destroy our sincere faith in God, in Ukraine. Faith in people. We will restore every house, every street, every city. And we say to Russia: learn the words "reparations" and "contributions". You will repay everything you did against Ukraine. In full. And we will not forget those who perished, and God won’t.

You have come to destroy our cities. Destroy our people. Take away from us everything that is dear to us. You cut off electricity, water and heating to civilians in Ukraine. You leave people without food and medicine. You are shelling routes of possible evacuation. There is no weapon that you would not use against us, against the free citizens of Ukraine. And now you are telling your propagandists that you are going to send so-called humanitarian columns to Ukraine... Remember, godless men: when millions of people curse you, you have nothing to save yourself.

Ukrainians in all war-torn regions will receive everything they need from us. Coordination headquarters are working in full. Real humanitarian goods are on the way. Our government has already prepared a program of special assistance for all Ukrainians who have lost the opportunity to work. Now. Because of the war. Where there is fighting! Every employee, every sole proprietor, every citizen of ours, from whom Russia has taken away the opportunity to work, will receive six and a half thousand hryvnias without any conditions. I especially emphasize this for older Ukrainians. Despite the war, we ensure full payment of pensions. Indexed pensions. As it should be in accordance with the law. From March 1, pensions for Ukrainians are indexed by 14%. The money has already gone to the banks. All payments will be made in full.

Ukraine receives weapons from its partners on a daily basis. From real friends. More and more powerful weapons every day. Ukraine is already meeting foreign volunteers who are going to our country. The first of sixteen thousand. They are going to defend freedom. Defend life. For us. For all. And it will be successful. I'm sure.

We have survived in our history and on our land two world wars, three Holodomors, the Holocaust, Babyn Yar, the Great Terror, the Chornobyl explosion, the occupation of Crimea and the war in the east. We do not have a huge territory - from ocean to ocean, we do not have nuclear weapons, we do not fill the world market with oil and gas. But we have our people and our land. And for us - it's gold. That is what we are fighting for. We have nothing to lose but our own freedom and dignity. For us, this is the greatest treasure. They wanted to destroy us so many times. They failed. They wanted to wipe us off the face of the earth. They failed. They backstabbed us. And we are on our feet. They wanted us to be silent. But the whole world heard us. We've been through so much! And if someone thinks that, having overcome all this, Ukrainians - all of us - are scared, broken or will surrender, he knows nothing about Ukraine. And he has nothing to do in Ukraine. Go home. To your home. Protect Russian-speaking people. Not all over the world. In your country. There are almost 150 million of them. And here...

Glory to Ukraine!]