Heading: [I am sure that soon we will be able to tell our people: come back, because there is no more threat.Ukrainians do not retreat, do not give up, do not stop the resistance]
Date: [5 March 2022]
Speech Content: [Free people of a free country!

It is already the tenth day of our national struggle. Sincere faith. And round-the-clock work.

The tenth day is like one infinitely long day. One infinitely long night that does not allow us to have a rest.

Today is Saturday. Saturday. This word means nothing during the war. Like Monday or Thursday or any other day. They all became the same.

We still protect the state. We still save people.

The country does not know weekends anymore. It doesn't matter what time it is. It doesn't matter what date it is. And it will be so until victory.

Late at night I spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron. And with President of Poland Andrzej Duda. Our interaction is constant. Our conversations are daily. I am immensely grateful to each of them. I am immensely grateful to Andrzej for his determination and devotion to our common cause. Protection of people. I am grateful to Andrzej's wife - Agata. They are friends whom I sincerely consider friends and sincerely wish to everyone.

We managed to prevent a humanitarian crisis at the border. We managed to organize the situation so that thousands and thousands of Ukrainian women and children were treated decently. Nobody asks about their nationality, faith or how much money they have. In fact, we no longer have a border with Poland. Because we are together on the side of good. We do not have time for borders.

I am sure that soon we will be able to tell our people: come back!

Come back from Poland, Romania, Slovakia and all other countries.

Come back, because there is no more threat.

We are already thinking about the future. For all Ukrainians. After the war. About how to revive our cities. How to revive the economy. I spoke with World Bank President David Malpass, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva.

We have an agreement among the largest financial institutions to support Ukraine. There is already a decision on emergency aid and tens of billions of dollars for the reconstruction of Ukraine after the war.

And these are only the first decisions. I emphasize these are only the first. I spoke with Turkish President Erdoğan. I spoke with the leaders of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. I spoke with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. The main topic is EU membership for Ukraine.

I am grateful to Europeans - hundreds of thousands of people in different cities of our continent. Bratislava, Vilnius, Frankfurt, Lyon, Paris, Tbilisi, Prague. They came out yesterday in support of Ukraine. In support of Europe. They came out for peace to be reached as soon as possible.

I am grateful to Americans for the unwavering bipartisan majority of ordinary people. We saw the poll. We saw the opinion of ordinary people in America who support ordinary people in Ukraine. Who demand tougher sanctions against Russia for aggression already now. Who support closing the sky now to save the lives of our people. 74 percent of Americans stand for the no-fly zone. 74! The vast majority. What else is needed to make a decision? We are sure that the result is similar in other democratic countries.

The Armed Forces of Ukraine bravely hold all key areas of our defense.

They are counterattacking the invaders near Kharkiv - defending the city. They are holding the line in Mykolaiv. Kyiv, Chernihiv region, Sumy region, Donbas. We inflict losses on the invaders they have not seen in their worst dreams.

The Russian army has not reached the planned frontiers. Yet it has reached almost 10 thousand Russian soldiers killed. 10 thousand. This is dreadful! 18-year-old, 20-year-old boys. Very young, almost children. Soldiers who were not even explained why they were going to fight. For what and why they are in a foreign land. 

10 thousand. Russia could definitely give these people something else. Instead of death.

The Ukrainian people are resisting even where the invaders managed to pass. Unfortunately. But not for long. I admire every Ukrainian who is not silent. Who protests. Who takes the national flag and shows the Russian military that they will lose. They will definitely lose. Because it is impossible to win against people who stop military equipment without weapons in their hands. Who refuse to take anything from the hands of the invaders. Whose situation is tough and dangerous. But they do not lose their dignity. And will never lose it.

At the talks in Belarus, the groups agreed on the first step. To bring back at least one percent of humanity from the normal level. Surrounded cities that are being destroyed and experiencing the worst days. Humanitarian corridors must work today. Mariupol and Volnovakha. To save people. Women, children, the elderly. To give food and medicine to those who remain. Our help is already on the way. Everyone who needs help should be able to leave. Those who are willing. Everyone who can defend their city must continue to fight. Must. Because if everyone leaves, then whose city will it be?

We are doing everything - on our part - to make the agreement work. This is one of the main tasks for today. Let's see if we can go further. In the negotiation process.

Let’s pray for our military. Let’s help our civilians.

Let’s work for peace.

Glory to Ukraine!
Our free people!

You are now at the height of your spirit. At the maximum of possibilities. Every soldier on the lines of defense. Every doctor who saves lives. Every firefighter who extinguishes fire. Every entrepreneur who continues to work. Dozens and dozens of other professions. Millions of people, which became one whole. Superpower of the spirit.

Programmers who joined the information troops. Everyone who joined the territorial defense. Teachers and educators who do not leave children. Police officers. Civil servants. We all withstood the blow together. We will all rebuild our state together.

What gives us this confidence? Where is it from? It's not just words. It's not just faith. This is our reality. Unconditional reality. Which is fueled by the energy of our people everyday. Our resistance. Our protest.

Kherson. Melitopol. Berdyansk. Konotop. The reality of all cities and towns, rural communities that expel the invaders everyday. By their determination. By their unity.

Freedom Square in Kherson is the whole of Ukraine. The streets of Konotop, where locals are shouting at the invaders, are Ukraine.

Ukraine, which we know, love, protect and will not give up to any enemy.

It is a special heroism to protest when your city is occupied. Even temporarily. When you don't have a weapon and in response you receive gunshots. And you don't run. When you don't have armor and an armored personnel carrier is coming at you. And you do not move aside.

That is why the occupation is temporary! It is artificial.

Our people, our Ukrainians do not retreat. Do not give up. Do not stop the resistance. They shout to the occupiers - go home. Like a Russian ship!

They drive them away from our territory. They block the roads for them. Every meter of our Ukrainian land won by protest and humiliation of the invaders is a step forward, a step towards victory for our entire state. This is a chance to live.

Ukrainians! In all our cities where the enemy entered. Feel it. Go on the offensive! You need to go outside! You have to fight! Every time when there is an opportunity. As in Kherson. As in Berdyansk. As in Melitopol. As in Konotop. You need to go out and drive this evil out of our cities. To prevent the creation of new DPR and LPR where normal life is simply impossible. Only slavery. Only on the knees.

Donbas! Remember what they said about you: Nobody put Donbas on its knees! And no one will be able to do that! Everyone in Donetsk and Luhansk knows these words. They were often repeated. Earlier. What about today?

Donbas, today is the time! We appeal to all people in the temporarily occupied territory. To all who hear us. Whose memory has not been erased by propaganda. Whose eyes have not been closed by fear. Whose soul has not been mutilated by cynicism.

Fight for your rights! For your freedom. For Ukraine. Together with Kherson. Together with Berdyansk. Together with Kyiv and all other Ukrainian cities that value life and are not afraid of anything.

I know that many of you believed that Ukraine allegedly hates you.

Will allegedly attack you. Will allegedly destroy you.

Liars on Russian TV talk about it every day.

Liars. It's their job to lie to you every day. But this should not be your destiny.

Just compare Donetsk after 8 years of war and Kharkiv after 8 days of war.

You were told that we are destroying cities. Look at Kharkiv. At Chernihiv. At 500 kg bombs that were dropped on the houses of Ukrainians. They were killing us. They were killing children. Look at Borodyanka. Look at the destroyed schools. At the blown up kindergartens. At the damaged Kharkiv Assumption Cathedral. Look what Russia has done.

It did it right in front of your eyes. Protect yourself! Otherwise, it will take your life, too. Your houses. Ukraine does not shoot its people. We do not blow up residential buildings. And everyone in Donbas has always been and will be our people. Our citizens.

In Donetsk. Luhansk. Kherson. Berdyansk. Melitopol. Konotop. In all our cities. In all cities of our state. In Ukraine.

Glory to Ukraine!]