Heading: [Address by the President of Ukraine]
Date: [28 February 2022]
Speech Content: [Good morning, Ukrainian heroes! The fifth day of Russia's full-scale war against the people of Ukraine. We stand firm. During this time, we have experienced as much as other nations may not have in decades. We have been told for a long time that there is something wrong with Ukrainians in this or that issue. That Ukrainians have to do so-called "homework" for decades. Because of this, we often did not notice what we are really capable of. And now we have shown ourselves to the fullest. And it's inspiring. For everyone.

In every conversation with our partners, I hear sincere respect. Ukrainians have shown the world who we are. And Russia has shown what it has become. Just think about it: during the Russian invasion - in just four days - sixteen Ukrainian children died as a result of the Russian shelling. Sixteen! 45 children were wounded.

Every crime, every shelling that the invaders commit against us, unites us and our partners even more. Russia did not believe in such a solidary and powerful reaction. But Ukrainians have changed that story. The European Union has decided to supply us with weapons. We are grateful. Yesterday I spoke with Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, about further, even stronger steps. Europeans are aware that our soldiers are fighting for our country and, consequently, for the whole of Europe. For peace for all European countries, for the lives of children, for equality, for democracy. And this gives us the full right to do the following.

We appeal to the European Union for Ukraine's immediate accession under a new special procedure. We are grateful to our partners for being with us. But our goal is to be with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be equal. I am confident that is fair. I am confident we deserve it. I am confident that all this is possible.

Yesterday I spoke with the Presidents of Portugal, Lithuania, President of France Emmanuel Macron and President of Poland Andrzej Duda. I am especially grateful to Andrzej Duda for our fruitful work. I spoke with the Prime Ministers of Belgium, Spain and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Boris Johnson. Support of our anti-war coalition is unconditional and unprecedented.

Europe has closed the sky to all Russian planes. Global business refuses any ties with Russian companies. Let's see how this week will end for the Russian currency - what will be the fall of the ruble. As long as this criminal invasion of Ukraine continues, the Russian state is suffering losses as if the war passed through their territory. Do you need all this? Russian mothers, Russian teachers, Russian entrepreneurs, ordinary people. For what?

Four and a half thousand Russian soldiers have already been killed. Why did you all come here? Why do the columns of your armored vehicles go against us? From our Crimea. From Yalta, Yevpatoriya, Sudak, Simferopol... These are not the names of military camps for tankers. Once again: four and a half thousand Russian invaders killed. Throw away your equipment. And leave. Do not believe your commanders. Do not believe your propagandists. Just save your lives. Leave.

We dedicate every hour to strengthening our state. Anyone who can join the fight against the invaders must do so. Therefore, a decision was made - not easy from a moral point of view, but useful from the point of view of our protection. Under martial law, participants in hostilities - Ukrainians with real combat experience - will be released from custody and will be able to compensate for their guilt in the hottest spots of war. All sanctions are lifted from some people who took part in the anti-terrorist operation. The key now is defense.

When I ran for presidency, I said that each of us is the President. Because we are all responsible for our state. For our beautiful Ukraine. And now it turns out that each of us is a warrior. The warrior in his or her own place. And I am confident that each of us will win. Russian forces today brutally shelled Kharkiv with rocket artillery. This is definitely a military crime. A peaceful city. Peaceful residential areas. No military object. Dozens of eyewitness records prove that this is not a separate false shot, it is a conscious destruction of people. Russians knew where they were shooting.

For this crime there will definitely be a tribunal. International. This is a breach of all conventions. No one in the world will forgive you the murder of peaceful Ukrainian people. Here is Ukraine. Here is Europe. Here is 2022. Evil, armed with rockets, bombs and artillery, must be stopped immediately. Destroyed economically. We must show that humanity is able to protect themselves. I believe that it is necessary to consider the full closure of the sky for Russian missiles, airplanes, helicopters. In five days of invasion, already 56 missile strikes have been carried out against Ukraine. 113 cruise missiles were fired. This is their "fraternal friendship". And the world knows what to do. I spoke about this with partners today.

The state committing military crimes against civilians cannot be a member of the UN Security Council. The entrance to all ports, channels, airports in the world must be closed for this state . Such a state must not receive hundreds of billions for energy exports. Buying Russian goods now is to pay money for murdering people.

Peaceful, proud, strong Kharkiv. You have always been such. You will always be such. We will withstand this as well. We will defend Ukraine. We will help everyone affected by inhuman invasion. Chernihiv, Okhtyrka, Sumy, Hostomel, Vasylkiv, Kherson, Mariupol, Donetsk and all other cities and towns of our native country will see a peaceful and safe life. Sincere condolences to all who lost their relatives and loved ones in this war. Eternal memory to those who died. Eternal glory to everyone who defends our freedom!

Before addressing you, I signed a decree on awarding the title of the Hero of Ukraine to twelve our defenders:

Lieutenant  Colonel Eduard Mykolayovych Vahorovsky (posthumously). He died saving our aircraft from a missile strike. Gave others the opportunity to take to the air. 
Major Dmytro Valeriyovych Kolomiets (posthumously). He rescued his brothers-in-arms, diverted enemy aircraft fire and was shot down by an enemy plane.
Lieutenant Colonel Hennadiy Vasyliovych Matulyak (posthumously). Hostomel. Destroyed the group of enemy equipment.
Lieutenant Vitaliy Anatoliyovych Movchan (posthumously). In an air battle he destroyed two enemy aircraft.
Colonel Oleksandr Yakovych Oksanchenko (posthumously). He died in an air battle, distracting enemy aircraft.
Senior Lieutenant Vyacheslav Denysovych Radionov (posthumously). Thanks to his courageous actions, the entire crew of the brigade's planes took to the air in Vasylkiv, and this saved ours from a missile strike.
Senior Lieutenant Andriy Andriyovych Gerus. Over the city of Kropyvnytskyi he shot down an enemy IL-76, which prevented the landing of Russian troops with weapons.
Brigadier General Dmytro Serhiyovych Krasylnykov, Commander of the Operational and Tactical Group "North". For two days he has been fighting off the continuous assault, saved people and equipment. And did not let the enemy into Kharkiv from the Luhansk region.
Lieutenant Colonel Andriy Mykolayovych Kruhlov. He withdrew the Buk SAM unit from the enemy attacks and personally destroyed two Russian helicopters and one plane.
Colonel Oleksandr Volodymyrovych Mostov. He shot down a Russian IL-76 near Vasylkiv, as well as two Mi-24 helicopters, which prevented the landing of paratroopers and weapons.
Lieutenant General Yuri Ivanovych Sodol. In the battles for Volnovakha, he saved our men from the encirclement and organized a successful counterattack. He brought people out of the enemy’s attack. Defends Mariupol extremely effectively.
Colonel of medical service Eduard Mykolayovych Khoroshun. He personally organized the defense of the besieged military medical center and carried out the evacuation of the wounded.
Now about Kyiv, our beautiful capital, the basis of our state, our security. For an enemy, Kyiv is the key target. They want to break our national statehood. Therefore, the capital is constantly in danger. Three rocket-bombing strikes are carried out only today. TETs-6 is the target. They want to damage a power station and leave our city without light. We did not allow them to break the defense of the capital. And they send saboteurs to us. Constantly. Hundreds. All they are being neutralized.

In addition to defense, we are thinking about the rear as well. Provide people with everything necessary. We formed a round-the-clock coordination headquarters that collects all requests from regional administrations regarding the lack of the most necessary stuff. Products, medicines, fuel, equipment. The headquarters directly  finds suppliers that can quickly and qualitatively meet such needs. This is the restoration of supply chains, interrupted by the war.

Today, at the initiative of the Russian side, the first round of negotiations between Ukraine and Russia took place. These negotiations took place against the background of bombing and shelling of our territory, our cities. Synchronization of shelling with a negotiation process could be seen. I believe that Russia is trying to put pressure on us in such a way. Don't waste time. We do not perceive such tactics. Fair negotiations are possible when one side does not hit the other side with rocket artillery precisely at the moment of negotiations.

So far we do not have the result we would like to get. Russia has declared its position. We have outlined positions in response - to end the war. Some signals we received. When the delegation returns to Kyiv, we will analyze what we’ve heard and then determine how to move to the second round of negotiations.

Another thing that is very important to say. We've been waiting 30 years for this. Today I signed an application for Ukraine's membership in the European Union. We have gained the right to be together with everyone in Europe. The application has already been delivered to Brussels, officially registered. The time has come.

Glory to Ukraine!]