Heading: [The future of the continent is being decided by us with our resistance and by our friends with their help. Every day of resistance creates better conditions for Ukraine in the negotiations to guarantee our future in peace ]
Date: [7 March 2022]
Speech Content: [Peaceful people of a belligerent state!

We have been defending ourselves against the invasion for 12 days already. We never wanted this war. But it was brought to us. We never dreamed of killing. But we have to knock out the enemy. From our land and from our lives.

We have to endure what no other European nation has seen in 80 years.

And it is on our land that it is decided whether someone else in Europe will fall victim to the same aggression.

I’m telling this to the leaders of the world and I hear that they agree.

We decide the future of the continent. WIth our resistance. And our friends - with their help.

I spoke again with Polish President Andrzej Duda. They help us. Keep working.

I spoke with Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Boris Johnson and Prime Minister of Italy Mario Draghi. With President of France Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister of India Modi.

I received very important signals, which, I'm sure, will only strengthen Ukraine.

Our theses in conversations with partners are absolutely logical. They are fair. Honest.

If the invasion continues and Russia does not abandon its plans against Ukraine, then a new sanctions package is needed. New sanctions, new sanction steps against war and for peace.

Boycott of Russian exports. In particular, the refusal of oil and petroleum products from Russia.

This can be called an embargo. Or just morality. When you refuse to give money to a terrorist. Boycott of imports to Russia. If they do not want to follow civilized rules, they should not receive goods and services from civilization. Let the war feed them.

The international community must act even more decisively.

When someone loses their mind, we have to lose fear and forget about commerce. We need to defend ourselves.

You have to be moral. Both states and companies.

We must fight against the inhuman force that wants to destroy humanity itself.

The success of the Ukrainian army. The will of the Ukrainian people.The principled nature of international sanctions. This is the way to peace.

At night the invaders fired at Mykolaiv. Right at the residential areas. Using rocket artillery.

They fired at Kharkiv, at residential areas of a peaceful city.

They fired at other cities of our state.

No military sense. Just terror.

Residents of Irpen, Bucha, Hostomel and many other towns and villages, which the invader managed to capture, are being held hostage. Temporarily. Until the invaders get punishment. And they will get it.

Our Armed Forces know how to do it.

The enemy is tired. Demoralized. They came to our land to look for something that has never been here: cowardice, consent to slavery.

Any normal person is afraid to look at burned houses. It is obvious. Destroyed panel high-rise buildings. Destroyed ordinary cars.

Missiles, air bombs, "Grads", mortars. Against people.

It feels like it's in another country. But this is in our country. In ours, not somewhere else. In ours.

Which has always wanted peace above anything else.

How many more deaths and losses are needed to secure the sky over Ukraine?

How do civilians in Kharkiv or Mykolaiv differ from Hamburg or Vienna?

We are waiting for a decision. Securing the sky.

Either with the power you have, or give us fighter jets and air defense systems that will provide us with the strength we need.

This is the help that the world should provide not just to Ukraine, but to itself. To prove: humanity will win. As soon as possible.

The Government of Ukraine is already working on how to restore our state after the victory.

How to give more strength to the country while we are fighting.

A special package of assistance to businesses and employees has been created.

Sole proprietors of the first and second groups are completely exempt from UST.

Enterprises and sole proprietors of the third group are exempt from paying UST for employees who were drafted into the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other defense formations. In particular, the territorial defense.

Exemption from land tax and rent for state and communal land in all areas where hostilities are taking place.

All this is during martial law and at least a year after its end.

The payment of taxes for all enterprises that are unable to pay them is postponed.

And this is only the first part of a large aid package. Government support.

All leaders of the central government have a clear task: to develop a system of action so that the recovery of Ukraine is rapid and focused only on people. First of all - on people.

For us all to return to peace, to normal work. When we return our land, return peace to our land.

I am grateful to all business owners and managers who continue to work and fulfill their obligations to their employees.

To pay salaries to people - even if the company does not work as before - is to protect Ukraine.

The state fulfills all its obligations.

Indexed pensions have already been provided to the people. The salary in the budget sphere is paid as it should be.

Ukrainians!

There are millions of us. And these are millions of ways to fight for our future. For our state. For our freedom. For our national flag. Blue and yellow. Not a tricolor. We defend our flag because it is our worldview.

Under the blue and yellow we gained victories at the Olympics. We unfurled this flag both in space and in Antarctica.

Under our national flag, our rescuers, firefighters, peacekeepers, medics and everyone else came to the aid of Turkey, Greece, Israel and Georgia, Afghanistan and Montenegro, India, Italy, the Congo and many other countries.

What we have never done under this flag is attacking other countries, seizing foreign lands, killing people, peaceful people of other nations.

We and terror are different universes.

That is why there is no blood on our flag. There are no and will never be black spots on it. There are no and will never be any swastikas on it. The Ukrainian flag is the land. Peaceful, fertile, golden and without tanks. This is the sky. Peaceful, clear, blue and without missiles. So it was. And so it will be.

I believe!

I know.

Glory to Ukraine!

Monday. Evening. You know, we used to say: Monday is a hard day. There is a war in the country. So every day is Monday.

And now we are used to the fact that every day and every night are like that.

Today is the 12th. 12th evening of our struggle. Our defense.

We are all on the ground, we are all working.

Everyone is where they should be. I am in Kyiv. My team is with me. The territorial defense is on the ground. The servicemen are in positions. Our heroes! Doctors, rescuers, transporters, diplomats, journalists...

Everyone. We are all at war. We all contribute to our victory, which will definitely be achieved. By force of arms and our army. By force of words and our diplomacy. By force of spirit, which the first, the second and each of us have.

Take a look at our country today.

Chaplynka, Melitopol, Tokmak, Novotroitske and Kherson. Starobilsk. Everywhere people defended themselves, although they do not have weapons there. But these are our people, and that's why they have weapons.

They have courage. Dignity. And hence the ability to go out and say: I'm here, it's mine, and I won't give it away. My city. My community. My Ukraine.

Every Ukrainian man and woman who protested against the invaders yesterday, today and will protest tomorrow are heroes.

We shout at the invaders together with you. We stand in the squares and streets with you. We are not afraid with you when the invaders open fire and try to drive everyone away.

YOU do not back down.

WE do not back down.

And the one who repeated: "We are one people" - certainly did not expect such a powerful reaction.

In the south of our country, such a national movement has unfolded, such a powerful manifestation of Ukrainianness that we have never seen in the streets and squares there. And for Russia it is like a nightmare.

They forgot that we are not afraid of paddy wagons and batons. We are not afraid of tanks and machine guns. When the main thing is on our side, truth. As it is now.

Mariupol and Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Sumy. Odesa and Kyiv. Mykolaiv. Zhytomyr and Korosten. Ovruch. And many other cities.

We know that hatred that the enemy brought to our cities with shelling and bombing will not remain there. There will be no trace of it. Hatred is not about us. Therefore, there will be no trace of the enemy. We will rebuild everything. We will make our cities destroyed by the invader better than any city in Russia.

Enerhodar. Chornobyl. And other places where barbarians just don't understand WHAT they want to capture. WHAT they want to control. Your work, your hard work on critical objects is a real feat. And we see it. We are sincerely grateful for it.

The Ukrainian army holds positions. Well done! It inflicts extremely painful losses on the enemy. Defends. Counterattacks. If necessary - can take revenge. Necessarily. For every evil. For every rocket and bomb. For each destroyed civilian object.

Today in Makariv, Kyiv region, they fired at the bread factory. For what? The old bread factory! Think about it - to fire at the bread factory. Who should you be to do that?

Or to destroy another church - in the Zhytomyr region. The Church of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin built in 1862.

These are NOT people.

There was an agreement on humanitarian corridors.

Did it work? Russian tanks worked instead. Russian "Grads". Russian mines. They even mined the road, which was agreed to transport food and medicine for people and children in Mariupol.

They even destroy buses that have to take people out. But ... At the same time, they are opening a small corridor to the occupied territory. For several dozen people. Not so much to Russia, as to propagandists. Directly to their TV cameras. Like, that's the one who saves. Just cynicism. Just propaganda. Nothing more. No humanitarian sense.

The third round of negotiations in Belarus took place today. I would like to say - the third and final. But we are realists. So we will talk. We will insist on negotiations until we find a way to tell our people: this is how we will come to peace.

Exactly to peace.

We must realize that every day of struggle, every day of resistance creates better conditions for us. Strong position to guarantee our future. In peace. After this war.

Apart from the dead people and the destroyed cities, the war leaves destroyed the aspirations that once seemed very important, but now ... You don't even mention them.

Almost three years ago, as soon as the election took place, we entered this building, this office, and immediately began planning our move.

I dreamed of moving from Bankova. Together with the government and parliament. To unload the center of Kyiv and in general - to move to a modern, transparent office - as befits a progressive democratic European country.

Now I will say one thing: I stay here.

I stay in Kyiv.

On Bankova Street.

I’m not hiding.

And I'm not afraid of anyone.

As much as it takes to win this Patriotic War of ours.

Today I signed a decree to present state awards of Ukraine to 96 Ukrainian heroes - our military.

Including…

The Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky of the second degree is awarded to:

Major Oleksandr Oleksandrovych Sak. Commander of the mechanized battalion who entered the battle with the battalion tactical group of the enemy and won thanks to a rational approach to combat and non-standard tactics.

Captain Rostyslav Oleksandrovych Sylivakin. Commander of the mechanized battalion, which successfully fought the overwhelming forces of the enemy, liberating Ukrainian towns and villages in the Sumy region.

The Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky of the third degree is awarded to:

Lieutenant Ihor Serhiyovych Lozovyi. Acting as part of the group, he stopped a column of enemy vehicles numbering about 150 units, which was moving in the direction of the Zhytomyr-Kyiv route. Destroyed.

Lieutenant Vitaliy Viktorovych Poturemets. He showed exemplary courage and composure in the battle, destroying a column of enemy equipment near the city of Kyiv. He was wounded.

The Order "For Courage" of the third degree is awarded to:

Master Sergeant, Commander of the Automobile Platoon Valentyn Viktorovych Baryliuk. Thanks to his brave actions and personal determination, the tank unit received fuel in time and left the encirclement, destroying the enemy on the way.

All 96 of our heroes are like these five!

Our gratitude to all the military.

Our gratitude to the Armed Forces of Ukraine!

Our gratitude is boundless.

Glory to Ukraine!]