Heading: [A portion of today's Staff meeting was devoted to a complex of issues for which our soldiers and society expect fair answers]
Date: [24 November 2023]
Speech Content: [I wish you good health, dear Ukrainians!

Just concluded negotiations with the President of Latvia. It was a substantive conversation. We talked about the defensive support for our state, for our soldiers. About the sustainability of such support. In particular, we discussed the production and supply of ammunition – 155mm artillery – as well as the issue of medevac – special armored vehicles for evacuating our wounded soldiers. I am grateful to Latvia for its unwavering support for our European prospects – all the work towards the start of negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Today, I informed Mr. President about our country's implementation of the European Commission's recommendations and our readiness for a political decision in December, as promised by the European side, opening the negotiation process. We expect this decision and the fulfillment of the European Union's promise. We discussed in detail with Mr. President mechanics of preparing the relevant EU decision.

I also spoke today with Mark Rutte, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Thanked him for the support provided to Ukraine, for the recent decision on an additional EUR 2 billion for the next year. This is an important signal for other partners. Protecting our European way of life must continue, and unity in Europe is a key element for this. Mark and I also discussed our joint work on the Peace Formula, as well as important humanitarian initiatives like our Grain from Ukraine program. We are working together to preserve stability in critical regions of the world and thus protect our continent from waves of crises.

Today, I chaired an important and challenging meeting of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief's Staff. Concerning not only the current situation on the front, although that was, as always, one of the main points. Our defensive, our offensive actions. Avdiivka, Donetsk direction, Maryinka, Kupiansk direction, southern directions. A significant part of today's meeting was dedicated to a complex of issues for which our soldiers and the entire society expect fair answers. This includes mobilization and demobilization, rotations in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Issues regarding conscripts who were called to service before the start of the full-scale invasion. Of course, special attention was given to the situation with the work of the medical military commissions and military enlistment offices. What soldiers talk about, what commanders discuss must be resolved. Today, there were initial reports on this from Commander-in-Chief Zaluzhny, Minister of Defense Umerov, Minister of Internal Affairs Klymenko, Minister of Health Liashko, and Chief of the General Staff Shaptala. I expect a more thorough analysis of each of these issues by both the government and the military and concrete proposals for state decisions.

I thank everyone who cares about Ukraine and Ukrainians! I thank each and every one who fights for the country and works for Ukrainian interests!

Glory to Ukraine!]