Heading: [Russia is preparing for winter, and Ukraine should focus on defense and response to terrorists]
Date: [12 November 2023]
Speech Content: [I wish you health, fellow Ukrainians!

Every time another week of the war – our defense, our active steps – comes to an end, it is important to say one thing: thank you.

Thank you to everyone who defends our country and gives Ukraine the opportunity to be truly Ukraine: itself, a vibrant and powerful country. It is important to thank everyone who fights for the sake of the state, everyone who helps fight and who champions Ukraine's interests in the world. Everyone who trains our soldiers, who treats them, who develops our combat medicine and our military production, who provides our people with everything they need. We must always realize how many people are involved in the defense of Ukraine and Ukrainians. And each of these people is important, all of them together are the Ukrainian force. First of all, these are our warriors. Those who physically restrain the enemy, who destroy the occupier, who protect us from Russian missiles and drones.

And today I would like to especially recognize the units of our National Guard of Ukraine, which are fighting alongside all defense and security forces. Fighting vigorously, strongly, and effectively.

I thank you, warriors! The 3rd and 14th operational brigades of the National Guard, involved in the offensive in the south. The 12th brigade of the National Guard – the eastern direction. The guys are holding their ground and defending every meter of Ukrainian land. Thank you for your strength! Thank you for repelling the Russian assaults! The 4th operational brigade of the National Guard – fighting in the Bakhmut sector. I am especially grateful to the artillery and anti-aircraft gunners of the 4th brigade. Well done to you guys! And, of course, the Avdiivka sector: the National Guard's special forces units are fighting heroically there alongside all our warriors. Thank you for your resilience, guys!

It's also important to remember the warriors and units of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, who are fighting alongside everyone else as part of the defense forces on the frontline, as well as protecting our border and ensuring the safety of border traffic. They are not often talked about, but they are also doing a great job.

Donetsk region, Avdiivka sector – I thank the warriors of the Zhytomyr border guard detachment. Senior sergeants Nazar Siryi and Serhiy Solozhuk particularly distinguished themselves. Lyman sector – I thank the guys from the Izmail border guard detachment. And special thanks to Chief Sergeant Oleksandr Atmazhov and Senior Sergeant Yurii Panasenko. Thank you for your bravery! And the Dozor special forces unit, which performs missions in various areas. I thank all of you guys! I would also like to mention the border guards of the Sumy detachment – thank you for protecting us from saboteurs and for shooting down Russian drones!

We are almost halfway through November and we must be prepared for the possibility that the enemy may increase the number of drone or missile strikes against our infrastructure. Russia is preparing for winter. And in Ukraine, all our attention should be focused on defense, on response to terrorists, on everything Ukraine can do to make it easier for our people to get through this winter and to increase the capabilities of our troops.

I thank all our partners who have helped Ukraine with air defense. These are different countries: the United States, Germany, France, Britain, Norway, Italy, Romania, Sweden, the Netherlands, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Poland, the Baltic States and other countries. Patriot, NASAMS, IRIS-T, RAVEN, Hawk, and other systems. We can't talk openly about everything now, but the Ukrainian sky shield is already more powerful compared to last year. It has greater capabilities, but unfortunately, it does not yet fully protect the entire territory. And we are working to make it even better. Every country, every leader who helps us bolster our air defense helps protect lives. And I urge all Ukrainians, all those whose voice is heard in the world, our journalists, all those who support Ukraine in the world, to help boost the defense. To help! We are capable of overcoming the most difficult challenges. But only together, in unity, when we take care of each other and when millions of people help their defenders and their country. It is imperative to be united and grateful.

Glory to our people – the people of Ukraine!

Glory to Ukraine!]