Heading: [We have already reached a strategic turning point and are moving towards our goal, our victory. The state is doing everything to help Mariupol]
Date: [11 March 2022]
Speech Content: [Free people of a free country!

We have been fighting for our freedom for the 16th day already. This is four times longer than the enemy planned for his invasion.

Four times longer! Against the army, which was considered one of the strongest in the world. Which hoped that the Ukrainians would surrender. Hoped that someone would meet Russian flags on Ukrainian streets, on our streets with flowers.

But Ukrainians are proud people who always defend their land and will not give the invader a single piece of land. Not a percent of their freedom.

16 days. I know that many people have started to feel tired. I understand. Impatience. I understand.

Emotions play a bad game with people. This is life. When we mobilize, when we see our victories and the loss of the enemy on the battlefield, we expect the struggle to end sooner. We expect the invaders to fall faster. But... This is life, this is war. This is a struggle.

Time is still needed. Patience is still needed. Our wisdom, energy. The ability to do our job to the maximum so that we can win together.

It is impossible to say how many more days we must liberate our Ukrainian land. But it is possible to say - we will do it! Because we strived for that. Because we have already reached a strategic turning point. We are already moving towards our goal, towards our victory.

This is a patriotic war. War with a very stubborn enemy who does not pay attention to the thousands of his killed people, killed soldiers. Who is now gathering reservists and conscripts all over Russia to throw them into the hell of this war.

Who came up with the idea of throwing mercenaries against our people. Thugs from Syria. From the country that was destroyed in the same way as the invaders are destroying us now - our Mariupol, our Kharkiv, Okhtyrka, Chernihiv, Volnovakha, Izyum, etc.

This is how Russian troops treat Ukrainians. This is how they treat Donbas, Russian-speaking people, as they said. How they shouted to everyone about "protection", which they talked about so much in Moscow. Rockets, air bombs, artillery. And now Syrian mercenaries who do not distinguish at all who speaks what language here, what church people go to, what party people supported.

Mercenaries who simply go to kill in a foreign land - in every sense of the word.

Over the past night and morning, the invaders carried out, as they say, "demilitarization" of the water supply system in Chernihiv. The city was left without water. We are doing everything to restore the water supply. Due to constant shelling in parts of the Sumy, Kyiv, Donetsk regions there is no electricity, yes, there are problems with heating, no gas, water. This is a humanitarian catastrophe.

Humanitarian catastrophe - two words that have become fully synonymous with the other two words - the Russian Federation.

At night, the invaders bombed a shoe factory, an apartment building and a kindergarten in Dnipro. For what? How did they threaten the Russian state? They destroyed residential houses in the villages of the Sumy region. They continued torturing Mariupol residents, Kharkiv residents.

They fired rockets at Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk...

If this continues, sanctions against Russia are not enough. And I expect, we are already working on this, new sanctions from our partners today.

Russia must pay for this terrible war. Pay daily!

A very important meeting of the leaders of the European Union took place yesterday. Long, substantive. We know what was said at this meeting. What all leaders said. Who specifically spoke. Who supported. Who remained silent. And who tried to make the wording insufficient - for Ukraine, Europe and our common freedom.

How do we evaluate the decision made?

It's very simple: it must be stronger. This is not what we expect.

It is necessary that the decisions of politicians coincide with the mood of their nations, European nations. We are aware of this mood. And they are aware of this mood.

Every politician is well aware!

The numbers are different in different countries, but there are polls and support is huge. At least 60 percent stand in favor. And this is the vast majority which stands for Ukraine to be part of Europe!

Europeans are clearly talking about this. And I'm sure they will clearly tell their politicians about this. If they haven't figured it out yet.

The decision of yesterday's meeting of EU leaders now reaches the level of the European Commission.

For implementation. For specific procedures.

The European Union must do more.

It must do more for us, for Ukraine. And for itself.

We are waiting for that. All European nations are waiting.

Our government officials have organized 12 humanitarian corridors today.

Cargo with food, water, medicine is already on the way. Izyum, Enerhodar, Volnovakha, Polohy, Bucha, Hostomel, Borodyanka, Andriivka, Mykulychi, Makariv, Kozarovychi, of course, Mariupol.

The Ukrainian servicemen have ensured "silence" for the humanitarian corridors to work.

If the invaders shoot and disrupt the rescue of people again, they will eventually receive such a response from the world that they themselves will need humanitarian corridors.

Our government officials, despite difficulties, are doing everything to ensure that there is fuel, products, medicines and all goods people need throughout the country.

Gasoline, diesel - everything is imported.

This morning I was asked a question at a daily conference call. Logical question. Given the spring. What about sowing? How to start it, especially in those areas that are temporarily occupied?

My answer is very simple: all over our land, no matter what, we have to organize a full-fledged sowing campaign this spring. Of course, as much as possible. It all depends on the people and the situation. Because it's about life. Life is more important. It’s about our life. About our dreams. About our future. And therefore, about our victory.

I repeat again and again: when we defend freedom, everyone must be like a full-fledged army.

Do everything we can in our place to get the result we all deserve. That's fair. To win. Necessarily.

Be sure to hold on. Be sure to fight. Be sure to give your all strength.

It will not be easy with such a neighbor. But with us, it will not be easy, too.

As it already turned out.

Glory to Ukraine!

Ukrainians!

One of the main tasks for us today was the organization of humanitarian corridors.

Sumy, Trostyanets, Krasnopillya, Irpin, Bucha, Hostomel, Izyum. Almost 40,000 people have already been evacuated this day. They were given safety at last. In Poltava, Kyiv, Cherkasy, Zaporizhzhia, Dnipro, Lviv.

Humanitarian cargoes were also delivered. Hundreds of tons of food, medicine.

We are doing everything to save our people in the cities that the enemy just wants to destroy. Taking into account the work of humanitarian corridors in the previous two days, we have already evacuated about one hundred thousand people.

But…

Mariupol and Volnovakha remain completely blocked.

Although we did everything necessary to make the humanitarian corridor work, Russian troops did not cease fire.

Despite this, I decided to send a convoy of trucks to Mariupol anyway. With food, water, medicine. I am grateful to the drivers - brave people who were ready to fulfill this mission. An extremely important mission.

But the invaders started a tank attack exactly in the area where this corridor was supposed to be. Corridor of life. For the people of Mariupol.

They did it consciously. They knew what they were disrupting. They have a clear order to hold Mariupol hostage, to torture it, to carry out constant bombardment.

Today they destroyed the building of the main department of the State Emergency Service in the Donetsk region. Right next to this building was the place where Mariupol residents were to gather for evacuation.

This is outright terror. Blatant terror.

From experienced terrorists.

The world needs to know that. It has to admit it. We are all dealing with a terrorist state.

But no matter what, we will try! Constantly! We will continue to try to bring to Mariupol the aid that people so desperately need. Ukrainians need.

The invaders are doing everything to deceive our people in the besieged cities.

They block communication. Prevent the provision of Information. The state is doing everything to help our city.

Everything to tell the people of Mariupol: we are fighting. And we will not give up this fight.

Therefore, if you have the opportunity to talk to the people of Mariupol, to write to the people of Mariupol, spread the truth. Remind them that Ukraine is with them wholeheartedly and is doing everything to stop the torture of the city.

Russian propagandists have substantially intensified their activity today. And they tried very hard.

Probably in order to cover up the crimes of their army in Ukraine. Crimes against Mariupol. Against Donbas. Against Kharkiv. Against dozens of other cities.

Cover them up with new accusations. New-old fakes.

They accuse us... Again us! That we are allegedly developing biological weapons. Allegedly, we are preparing a chemical attack.

This makes me really worried, because we’ve been repeatedly convinced: if you want to know Russia's plans, look at what Russia accuses others of.

Look, spreading such accusations in the Russian media shows that it is THEY who are capable of this. The Russian military, the Russian special services. It shows that they want it.

They have already done such things in other countries. Similar! They themselves announced, they themselves organized, they themselves complained. And they will do so again.

Again and again. If they are not stopped.

They tore apart Moldova with Transnistria. They tore apart Georgia with Abkhazia. They tore apart Ukraine with Donbas and Crimea.

But they blame us! Those who have become victims.

Those who are forced to defend themselves. Fight for the right to live.

They themselves come to us in tanks and with missiles.

They take something that doesn’t belong to them. Capture.

They are even ashamed to show their officers! They hide their generals. They conceal from their own people that they are sending conscripts to this war only to make the invasion forces larger.

But we are to blame! We are accused of attacks on allegedly peaceful Russia.

And now what? What are these allegations of preparing chemical attacks? Have you decided to carry out "de-chemicalization" of Ukraine? Using ammonia? Using phosphorus? What else have you prepared for us?

Where will you strike with chemical weapons?

At the maternity hospital in Mariupol? At the church in Kharkiv? At the Okhmatdyt Children's Hospital?

Or at laboratories, most of which have remained since Soviet times and are engaged in ordinary science. Ordinary!

NOT military technology.

We are adequate people. I am the President of an adequate country, an adequate nation. And the father of two children.

And no chemical or any other weapons of mass destruction were developed on my land.

The whole world knows that.

YOU know that.

And if YOU do something like that against US, you will get the most severe sanctions response.

Ukrainians! Our defenders!

I have signed several important decrees.

About awarding the title of Hero of Ukraine to thirteen of our defenders:

Lieutenant Colonel Litun Andriy Mykolayovych. Posthumously. He died covering our troops and heroically restraining the enemy's offensive.

Captain Korpan Oleksandr Bohdanovych. Posthumously. He saved our soldiers and civilian houses when he took the falling aircraft away from them.

Junior Lieutenant Blokha Yuriy Ihorovych. Posthumously. In the battles in the Mykolaiv region he heroically protected brothers-in-arms, saving their lives.

Senior Sergeant Ivashko Andriy Oleksandrovych. Posthumously. During the rocket fire, he personally provided information about the enemy's actions at the cost of his own life.

Junior Sergeant Volkov Yevhen Volodymyrovych. Posthumously. For courage and heroism during the evacuation of the wounded in the Donetsk region, for saving our military.

Major General Nikoliuk Viktor Dmytrovych. He skillfully led the defense in the north-eastern direction and managed to prevent the capture of Chernihiv.

Colonel Khoda Leonid Oleksiyovych. During the war, under his command, more than 50 enemy vehicles were destroyed.

Lieutenant Colonel Ponomarenko Vyacheslav Anatoliyovych. Thanks to his actions, a significant number of enemy’s equipment and soldiers in the city of Hostomel were destroyed.

Lieutenant Colonel Yakovenko Oleksandr Oleksiyovych. He withdrew his units from the enemy artillery fire, thanks to which he saved personnel and continued to successfully defend the Donetsk region.

Major Bova Yevhen Petrovych. For the heroic defense of Mariupol and holding positions under constant enemy attacks.

Captain Boyechko Vasyl Vasyliovych. For the extremely successful destruction of enemy equipment and manpower.

Sergeant Moroz Oleh Romanovych. Thanks to his heroic deeds, the enemy's offensive in the Luhansk region was stopped.

Sailor Samofalov Valeriy Mykhailovych. In one battle, for the first time in the history of this war, he shot down three enemy helicopters.

I also signed a decree awarding orders for personal courage to 39 national guardsmen, 31 policemen (9 posthumously), 14 border guards (4 posthumously) and 23 employees of the State Emergency Service.

Today the rank of Brigadier General is awarded to:

Nechayev Oleh Oleksandrovych. For the successful defense of the Kyiv region.

Lishchynsky Vladyslav Vatslavovych. For extremely successful actions against the enemy in the Kherson region.

Hutsol Volodymyr Volodymyrych. For the successful destruction of enemy airborne troops in Vasylkiv.

Demyanchyk Hryhoriy Petrovych. For the successful organization of personnel training for our military units.

And finally.

Discussions on Ukraine's future in the EU continue today and tomorrow in Europe.

I believe that our people, our state, our army did everything for us to be welcome there. As equals. For us to be invited there.

This is the final exam for Europe.

Among the leaders of the states there are those who support us. And there are also those who support only themselves.

But we see how the nations of all European countries treat us. And this is the main thing.

Because I know for sure - if people decided on our membership in the EU, they would definitely choose the people of Ukraine.

Today, when I see the support of the people of each country in the squares of European capitals, I know that the Ukrainian people are already in the European Union.

And politicians... I'm sure they will adjust to that.

Preferably faster.

Glory to the nations of Europe!

Glory to Ukraine!

Glory to our military!

Thank you!]